keyboards/mechwild/mercutio/keymaps/fearless_spiff/readme.md, before:

Fearless Spiff's Custom Mercutio Keymap
  - "Programmer"-centric and German layout based keymap
  - Based on Bongocat and Jonavin keymap

Features
  - Fancy Bongocat! Yay! (borrowed from bongocat obviously)
  - Encoder selectable key codes and displayed on OLED (borrowed and multi-line-enhanced from Jonavin)
    - Change encoder_keys in keymap.c to assign your desired key selection
  - Additional encoder functionality 
    - While holding FN_1, page up and down
    - While holding FN_2, volume up and down
  - Use my templates for your own layout overview at [Keyboard Layout Editor](http://www.keyboard-layout-editor.com) using my gist [here](https://gist.github.com/FearlessSpiff)

QWERT Layer
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1927259/148683284-04932e15-a34d-451e-b657-335780033f36.png)

FN_1 Layer
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1927259/148683299-f2c80403-3f29-4ba8-9fc4-957729f30b05.png)

FN_2 layer
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1927259/148683306-364bc59c-b41b-4092-b93b-d7b4fc58567b.png)

Commit message:

[Keymap] add mouse controls to Mechwilds Mercutio FearlessSpiff  (#16566)

keyboards/mechwild/mercutio/keymaps/fearless_spiff/readme.md, after:

Fearless Spiff's Custom Mercutio Keymap
  - "Programmer"-centric and German layout based keymap
  - Based on Bongocat and Jonavin keymap

Features
  - Fancy Bongocat! Yay! (borrowed from bongocat obviously)
  - Encoder selectable key codes and displayed on OLED (borrowed and multi-line-enhanced from Jonavin)
    - Change encoder_keys in keymap.c to assign your desired key selection
  - Additional encoder functionality 
    - While holding FN_1, page up and down
    - While holding FN_2, volume up and down
  - Mouse controls by holding Caps-Space
  - Use my templates for your own layout overview at [Keyboard Layout Editor](http://www.keyboard-layout-editor.com) using my gist [here](https://gist.github.com/FearlessSpiff)
  - Shout out to [KMonad](https://github.com/kmonad/kmonad) which enabled my laptop keyboard to behave like my Mercutio!

QWERT Layer
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1927259/148683284-04932e15-a34d-451e-b657-335780033f36.png)

FN_1 Layer
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1927259/157032746-8aa68e1c-27b9-4cf5-88ed-a071d8238f56.png)

FN_2 layer
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1927259/148683306-364bc59c-b41b-4092-b93b-d7b4fc58567b.png)

FN_MOUSE layer
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1927259/157032817-83922578-8932-42bf-a2d2-f785136b4d4e.png)
