keyboards/ferris/sweep/readme.md, before:

# Ferris sweep

![Ferris sweep, top view](https://i.imgur.com/5qCZUv6h.jpg)
![Ferris sweep, bottom view](https://i.imgur.com/ZC47CJth.jpg)

A version of the Ferris keyboard that uses a daughterboard, designed by the fantastic @davidphilipbarr with some input from @pierrechevalier83 for the copper pad. All PCB files are available on the [project's github page](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr/Sweep)

## Keyboard Info

* Keyboard Maintainer: [Pierre Chevalier](https://github.com/pierrechevalier83)
* Hardware Supported: [Sweep](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr/Sweep) (all versions)
* Hardware Availability: Print the PCB with gerber files from the repository

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make ferris/sweep:default

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

## Setting Handedness

Firmware uses [handedness by EEPROM](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/feature_split_keyboard?id=handedness-by-eeprom) as default and it must be *configured once* on each side. The make commands for Pro micros are:

    make ferris/sweep:default:avrdude-split-left
    make ferris/sweep:default:avrdude-split-right

For Elite-C or compatible controllers using `DFU` bootloader, add the line `BOOTLOADER = atmel-dfu` into the user keymap `rules.mk` file and use the following make commands:

    make ferris/sweep:default:dfu-split-left
    make ferris/sweep:default:dfu-split-right

[QMK Toolbox](http://qmk.fm/toolbox) can also be used to set EEPROM handedness. Place the controller in bootloader mode and select menu option Tools -> EEPROM -> Set Left/Right Hand

## Bootloader

Enter the bootloader in 3 ways:

* **Bootmagic reset**: Hold down the top left key on the left half (or the top right key on the right half) and plug in the controller on that side.
* **Physical reset button**: Briefly press the reset button soldered on the PCB.
* **Keycode in layout**: Press the key mapped to `RESET` if it is configured.

## Swapped Pins

If you printed one of the PCB variant with swapped letters `Q` and `B` / `P` and `N`, add the following code to your keymap's `config.h` to swap pins `E6` and `D7` in the firmware:
```c
#undef DIRECT_PINS
#define DIRECT_PINS { \
    { D7, F7, F6, F5, F4 }, \
    { B1, B3, B2, B6, D3 }, \
    { D1, D0, D4, C6, E6 }, \
    { B4, B5, NO_PIN, NO_PIN, NO_PIN } \
}
#undef DIRECT_PINS_RIGHT
#define DIRECT_PINS_RIGHT { \
    { F4, F5, F6, F7, D7 }, \
    { D3, B6, B2, B3, B1 }, \
    { E6, C6, D4, D0, D1 }, \
    { B5, B4, NO_PIN, NO_PIN, NO_PIN } \
}
```

Commit message:

[Keyboard] Add RP2040 config defaults for ferris/sweep and cradio (#17557)

keyboards/ferris/sweep/readme.md, after:

# Ferris sweep

![Ferris sweep, top view](https://i.imgur.com/5qCZUv6h.jpg)
![Ferris sweep, bottom view](https://i.imgur.com/ZC47CJth.jpg)

A version of the Ferris keyboard that uses a daughterboard, designed by the fantastic @davidphilipbarr with some input from @pierrechevalier83 for the copper pad. All PCB files are available on the [project's github page](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr/Sweep)

## Keyboard Info

* Keyboard Maintainer: [Pierre Chevalier](https://github.com/pierrechevalier83)
* Hardware Supported: [Sweep](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr/Sweep) (all versions)
* Hardware Availability: Print the PCB with gerber files from the repository

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make ferris/sweep:default

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

## Setting Handedness

Firmware uses [handedness by EEPROM](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/feature_split_keyboard?id=handedness-by-eeprom) as default and it must be *configured once* on each side. The make commands for Pro micros are:

    make ferris/sweep:default:avrdude-split-left
    make ferris/sweep:default:avrdude-split-right

For Elite-C or compatible controllers using `DFU` bootloader, add the line `BOOTLOADER = atmel-dfu` into the user keymap `rules.mk` file and use the following make commands:

    make ferris/sweep:default:dfu-split-left
    make ferris/sweep:default:dfu-split-right

[QMK Toolbox](http://qmk.fm/toolbox) can also be used to set EEPROM handedness. Place the controller in bootloader mode and select menu option Tools -> EEPROM -> Set Left/Right Hand

### RP2040 Controllers

Pro Micro RP2040 controllers are supported with [QMK Converters](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/feature_converters). The make command example with handedness setting for Adafruit's KB2040 are:

    make CONVERT_TO=kb2040 ferris/sweep:default:uf2-split-left
    make CONVERT_TO=kb2040 ferris/sweep:default:uf2-split-right

## Bootloader

Enter the bootloader in 3 ways:

* **Bootmagic reset**: Hold down the top left key on the left half (or the top right key on the right half) and plug in the controller on that side.
* **Physical reset button**: Briefly press the reset button soldered on the PCB.
* **Keycode in layout**: Press the key mapped to `RESET` if it is configured.

## Swapped Pins

If you printed one of the PCB variant with swapped letters `Q` and `B` / `P` and `N`, add the following code to your keymap's `config.h` to swap pins `E6` and `D7` in the firmware:
```c
#undef DIRECT_PINS
#define DIRECT_PINS { \
    { D7, F7, F6, F5, F4 }, \
    { B1, B3, B2, B6, D3 }, \
    { D1, D0, D4, C6, E6 }, \
    { B4, B5, NO_PIN, NO_PIN, NO_PIN } \
}
#undef DIRECT_PINS_RIGHT
#define DIRECT_PINS_RIGHT { \
    { F4, F5, F6, F7, D7 }, \
    { D3, B6, B2, B3, B1 }, \
    { E6, C6, D4, D0, D1 }, \
    { B5, B4, NO_PIN, NO_PIN, NO_PIN } \
}
```
