docs/quantum_keycodes.md, before:

# Quantum Keycodes

Quantum keycodes allow for easier customization of your keymap than the basic ones provide, without having to define custom actions.

All keycodes within quantum are numbers between `0x0000` and `0xFFFF`. Within your `keymap.c` it may look like you have functions and other special cases, but ultimately the C preprocessor will translate those into a single 4 byte integer. QMK has reserved `0x0000` through `0x00FF` for standard keycodes. These are keycodes such as `KC_A`, `KC_1`, and `KC_LCTL`, which are basic keys defined in the USB HID specification.

On this page we have documented keycodes between `0x00FF` and `0xFFFF` which are used to implement advanced quantum features. If you define your own custom keycodes they will be put into this range as well.

## QMK Keycodes :id=qmk-keycodes

|Key              |Aliases  |Description                                            |
|-----------------|---------|-------------------------------------------------------|
|`QK_BOOTLOADER`  |`QK_BOOT`|Put the keyboard into bootloader mode for flashing     |
|`QK_DEBUG_TOGGLE`|`DB_TOGG`|Toggle debug mode                                      |
|`QK_CLEAR_EEPROM`|`EE_CLR` |Reinitializes the keyboard's EEPROM (persistent memory)|

Commit message:

[Core] Add compile/make macro to core (#15959)
* [Core] Add KC_MAKE keycode to core

fix linting

fix testing error

work around test idiocyncracies

fix more lint

something something stupid tests

add doc

* updates based on feedback

* Add bad names

* Fixup docs

* semantics but cleaner

Co-authored-by: precondition <57645186+precondition@users.noreply.github.com>

* Hide oneshot checks behind preprocessors

* Move no-compile option around

* Fix formatting

* make shift optional

* Make opt in

* fix formatting

* update send string function name

Co-authored-by: Joel Challis <git@zvecr.com>

Co-authored-by: precondition <57645186+precondition@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Joel Challis <git@zvecr.com>

docs/quantum_keycodes.md, after:

# Quantum Keycodes

Quantum keycodes allow for easier customization of your keymap than the basic ones provide, without having to define custom actions.

All keycodes within quantum are numbers between `0x0000` and `0xFFFF`. Within your `keymap.c` it may look like you have functions and other special cases, but ultimately the C preprocessor will translate those into a single 4 byte integer. QMK has reserved `0x0000` through `0x00FF` for standard keycodes. These are keycodes such as `KC_A`, `KC_1`, and `KC_LCTL`, which are basic keys defined in the USB HID specification.

On this page we have documented keycodes between `0x00FF` and `0xFFFF` which are used to implement advanced quantum features. If you define your own custom keycodes they will be put into this range as well.

## QMK Keycodes :id=qmk-keycodes

|Key              |Aliases  |Description                                                                      |
|-----------------|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|`QK_BOOTLOADER`  |`QK_BOOT`|Put the keyboard into bootloader mode for flashing                               |
|`QK_DEBUG_TOGGLE`|`DB_TOGG`|Toggle debug mode                                                                |
|`QK_CLEAR_EEPROM`|`EE_CLR` |Reinitializes the keyboard's EEPROM (persistent memory)                          |
|`QK_MAKE`        |         |Sends `qmk compile -kb (keyboard) -km (keymap)`, or `qmk flash` if shift is held |
